# inode: i.e. index node
  in linux system the filesystem consists of two parts: 1. metadata(inode) 2. the data itself
  what is inode? a data structure on Unix file system, ex. ext3, that stores basic information
      about a regular file, directory, or other file system object
  inode stores information such as: size of file(bytes), device id(device containing
      the file), user id(the owner), group id, file modes(permissions), file access/change
      time stamps, link count(number of hard links pointing to the inode), pointer to the
      disk block storing the content, file type(file/directory/special block device),
      block size of the filesystem, number of blocks the file uses
  when inodes are created? ex. ext3 creates inodes when filesystem is created
      (limited number of inodes)
  when someone access a file: user gives a filename -> internally mapped to its inode number
      stored in a "directory table" -> use the "inode number" to access the corresponding inode
      (via a "inode table": inode number -> the respective inode)
  what commands to see inode information? ex. ls -li, stat, df -i(total/used/free inodes)
  why inode does not conatin filename? only information unique to an inode, ex. for hard
      links, an inode could have 2 different files pointing to the same inode
  when a file is moved from one location to another on the same filesystem, the inode number
      stays the same
  when we create a file or directory, no inode is created; instead, a already created inode
      space is used and its information updated(inodes are only created at filesystem creation)
  if an inode has 0 link, the resources are freed for reallocation, and its deletion must
      must wait until all processes that opened it finish accessing it
  how to find a file using an inode number? command: find / -inum "n" -exec ls -l {} \;

  ex.
  there is a file called xxx in a directory called yyy. suppose that new lines are added to
      file xxx. what changes take place in file xxx, inode of file xxx, and directory yyy?
      directory yyy has no change since the filenames and inode numbers do not change
      inode of file xxx have changes of the file size, time of last access (aTime), time of last
      modification (mTime)
      the file xxx itself have changes in content (data)
